{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2639
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww20500\viewh12700\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Inside the World\'92s Largest Programming Course\

\f1\b0 \
This course delves into the techniques and technologies employed to develop and administer the world's largest programming course, Python for Everybody, which is available on numerous platforms such as Coursera, edX, and the Internet, and is taught on various campuses globally through different LMS systems. A publisher-like methodology is employed to teach courses at such a large scale, involving the construction of reusable materials and tools that can be incorporated into any LMS using LTI and Common Cartridge standards. The approach views a course as more of a book, complete with corresponding static and interactive resources. These elements are loaded into a Learning Object Repository to generate an environment similar to MyMathLab and are made available on the internet and readily integrated into an LMS. The software utilized in the creation of these educational resources is known as Tsugi, and we will examine its functionality and some of the MOOCs that rely on it.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 In this course we will take a look at the technologies and approaches that used to create and run the world's largest programming course.  Python for Everybody (www.py4e.com) is taught on Coursera, edX, on the web, and on hundreds of campuses around the world in a wide range of LMS systems.  To teach courses at this scale, we follow a publisher-like approach.  We build reusable materials and tools that can easily be integrated into any LMS using the LTI and Common Cartridge standards.  The approach thinks of a course more like a book - with associated static and interactive assets.  These assets are put into a Learning Object Repository to create a MyMathLab like environment and make them available on the web and ready for integration into an LMS.  The software that enables the creation of these teaching resources is called Tsugi.  We will look at how Tsugi works and some of the MOOCs that use Tsugi.\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 https://www.py4e.com/tsugi/lti/store/\
lti1_8e5534391007595153a61f64659eeb0bdbbef13223511fecbe46c043d7c65f12\
2e3212b682619938a21ff1bb49ef5028b28428198d7f391c859d57b8f03f22e5\
}