{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2634
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
Among the things that we do collectively as humans, education is special.  We need to transfer knowledge about medicine, food production, physics, manufacturing, how society functions and many other basic aspects of maintaining our existence on this planet from one generation to the next every 40 years.  In order to build a a better world, each succeeding generation must learn what previous generations have learned and then add their own innovations and improvements.\
\
The need for good education is present in all cultures and everywhere in the world.\
\
Because the need to educate the next generation is so critical to society, universities and other educational institutions have held a special and privileged position in our societies for over a thousand years.  Throughout most of the history of education, universities have educated a few wealthy members of each generation.  Because until 100 years ago most of those in the next generation would be doing labor which did not require any special training or knowledge.  \
\
In the past 100 years, society has evolved to the point where an education for everybody has evolved to be both a basic human right and essential to the proper function of our modern world.   The demand for education is hundreds of times larger today than it was 100 years ago.  Universities and other educational institutions have had too rapidly evolve to meet these needs.  Effective use of technologies like the world-wide-web, universal mobile access and internet connectivity are essential to help educators meet this exponentially growing need for education.\
\
Education is a special\
\
Education is about transferring the knowledge, skills necessary to sustain life and civilization from one generation to the next.  Throughout human history, each succeeding generation builds upon knowledge build by previous generations and adding their own improvements to humanities collective understanding on how to sustain itself.   As long as we retain and build upon knowledge from one generation to the next, each successive generation enjoys an improved world \
\
 - about technical trends shaping the Future of Education around 2030\
 - you would include LTI and Sakai Plus\
 - 2-3 items for Hiroshima Declaration\
\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
- prepare for 10 min video by August 18th (JST)\
 - about technical trends shaping the Future of Education around 2030\
 - you would include LTI and Sakai Plus\
 - 2-3 items for Hiroshima Declaration\
- participate in live panel discussion on August 22nd, 11:30am-1pm (JST)\
 - the date and time have been changed\
   - are you available?\
- participate in e-mail discussions on Hiroshima Declaration from\
 August 20th to August 23rd (JST)\
\
Abstract. This online national session focuses on the current and prospective use of Global Open Source and Open Standard at higher educational institutions and K12 schools in order to advance teaching and learning, mitigating concerns, risks and pit falls. Through the COVID-19 pandemic, the effectiveness of information technologies has been widely recognized by all of stakeholders who are related to higher educational institutions and K12 schools. However, its temporary implementation at scale for full online education to react to the COVID-19 pandemic within a quite limited time \'96 a couple of weeks or a month - forced university and school to use information technologies on the baseline of limited knowledges and resources before the pandemic. As the result, each university or school has been doing same things by different ways in some sense and sank up in a heterogenous information environment. Because of the nature of Global Open Source and Open Standard collaboratively developed in its global community to realize the idea of re-use and interoperability of shared knowledge, the use may allow university and school to attain more efficient and effective information environment. This session consists of plenary talks and a\'93flipped\'94panel discussion from global and local community in terms of Global Open Source and Open Standard in action. Through the preparation of this three-hours long online discussions organized by our local moderator in Japan, we will seek to deliver a declaration as a tangible result of this session in WCCE 2022 to mitigate current pain points toward affordable education.\
\
1 Background\
The COVID-19 pandemic has been working as a litmus testing paper to test the information environment and its management capability of each university or school. Some universities and schools well-prepared to move to full online\
2 S. Kajita and T. Yamada\
education at scale with small changes, and others failed to use the conventional systems and forced to move to new and tentative solutions with big changes. As EDUCAUSE Top Ten IT Issues 2022 addressed, higher education we knew will never return and now we can focus on getting the higher education we deserve[1]. After the bumped situation for information environment at university and school, it is mandate for us to re-think about the future of university and school by using information technologies to foster new future in a sustainable and affordable way. As the means to seek the way, Global Open Source and Open Standard could be a powerful because they represent shared vision and shared strategy in the community described in the Top Ten IT Issues 2022[1].\
\
This three-hours long session starts with three plenary talks that have pre- recorded videos invited from the local and global communities. By sharing the video with captions in English and Japanese and allowing participants to have questions prior to the session, we expect to include more discussions during the live session from non-native participants. The current candidate from the local community is related to GIGA School Initiative for K12 funded by Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology in Japan, and the one from the global community is related to IMS Global Learning Consortium[2] and Apereo Foundation[3], which are the global community on Open Standard and Open Source for teaching and learning.\
\
The second part followed by the plenary talks discusses the future of teaching and learning leveraged by Global Open Source and Open Standard through online discussions around the pre-recorded video presentations. Currently, we are planning to invite ten showcases in action from North America, Europe and Japan, which can envision the future of teaching and learning around 2030. This \'93flipped\'94 panel discussion entitled \'93Shedding Light on Shadow\'94 allows us to clarify the current pain points as \'93shadow\'94 and its mitigation plans as \'93light\'94 by using Global Open Source and Open Standard.\
Through the preparation of this three-hours long online discussions organized by our local moderator in Japan, we will seek to deliver \'93Hiroshima Declaration on Global Open Source and Open Standard toward Affordable Education on 2030\'94 as a tangible result of this session in WCCE 2022.\
}