{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2634
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww16420\viewh17240\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs34 \cf0 Twenty years ago, a few open source enthusiasts at the University of Michigan dared to think that they could build an open source Learning Management System to compete with the commercial enterprise Learning Management Systems of the time (Blackboard, WebCT, Angel, and eCollege).   It was the early 2000's and less than a decade after the broad availability of the world-wide-web.   The goal of Sakai was to focus on innovation that would meet the ever growing needs of faculty who wanted to use the world wide web to enhance their teaching. \
\
In the past 20 years, while corporate LMS systems have successfully built billions of dollars of shareholder value, Sakai has made meeting the growing needs of its users its primary focus.  This focus on usability and teaching innovation has led Sakai to be one of the highest rated systems by expert users of those systems.\
\
Another founding principle of the Sakai project was to develop interoperability standards for the exchange of software and learning content.  Sakai used its market influence to bring the other LMS vendors to the table in the mid-2000's to convene the Learning Tools Interoperability (LTI) and Common Cartridge (CC) specification development efforts within 1EdTech (formerly IMS Global).\
\
After 20 years of creating market leading user experiences and technology innovation, We has developed a technology that we call "SakaiPlus" that will improve teaching and learning on your campus without requiring you to switch Enterprise LMS vendors.   Those teachers that want to teach using the best LMS for learning can do so with about the same IT support effort and cost as it takes to install a single LTI tool in your current LMS.\
\
SakaiPlus uses the latest LTI Advantage standards from 1EdTech to provide a seamless integration between an Enterprise LMS and Sakai as an additional LMS.    A demonstration of SakaiPlus is pretty simple.  Once installed, the instructors and students have a link in their Enterprise LMS to launch SakaiPlus in a new tab.  In that new tab, they simply teach using any and all Sakai features and in the background, SakaiPlus keeps the rosters and grade books synchronized.  It took 20 years of standards, interoperability innovation and software development to make it so we can demonstrate the features of SakaiPlus in 10 seconds.  It is that easy.\
\
The teachers and students continue to use the Enterprise LMS to see grades, calendar and due dates.  This means that essential student records are stored in the Enterprise LMS as the system of record. Teachers can use as much or as little of SakaiPlus as they like in their teaching.  Perhaps they want to use a few of Sakai's class-leading tools like Lessons, Tests and Quizzes, or Conversations.  Or perhaps they are teaching a course where there are enhanced concerns around the control and possession of private student activity data - so they teach the entire course in SakaiPlus on a server owned by the school.  Or perhaps a teacher wants to teach and innovate using Sakai so they can make suggestions on how to improve the product they use and the open source community will listen to, care about, and implement their suggestions in a future version.\
\
The Sakai community welcomes participation from innovative teachers, instructional designers, instructional technologists and IT staff.  This way a school can have the best of both worlds - an outsourced enterprise LMS as a basic utility for the teachers who just want to do the minimum and an innovative, evolving, and use SakaiPlus for the teachers and staff who are trying to give their students a truly inspiring learning experience.\
\
Because SakaiPlus is 100% open source, schools interested in experimenting with and adopting SakaiPlus have many options.  SakaiPlus is not a separate "product" - there is no "extra cost".  As of Sakai-23, SakaiPlus is just a feature in every instance of Sakai waiting to be enabled, configured and used.  SakaiPlus is multi-tenant and efficient so it is possible to provide a free or low cost cloud service that would allow a school to test SakaiPlus or run a small pilot.   You can get a small single-tenant cloud hosted and vendor supported production SakaiPlus from a Sakai Commercial Affiliate at about the cost of an LTI tool.   Sakai can easily be self-hosted by a school using an Amazon EC2 Instance, an Aurora Serverless Database, and Amazon's Elastic File System (EFS).   If a school is a little uncertain about their in-house cloud hosting skills, Sakai Commercial Affiliates can assist a school in setting up, monitoring and upgrading their Sakai instance. And over time they can show your in-house staff on how to manage and maintain Sakai servers on AWS.\
\
In terms of our current hoped-for scheduled roll out of SakaiPlus, as of September 2022, we can support a few limited beta tests.  SakaiPlus is in production at the University of Michigan School of information and being used in one class (taught by Dr. Chuck).  I would love to hear from a few Canvas, Blackboard, and Desire2Learn schools with tech-savvy IT and Instructional Technology teams to participate in our Beta test.  We expect that by June 2023, Sakai Commercial Affiliates will be ready to provide commercial services and support for SakaiPlus for installation and roll out starting in September 2023.  If you are interested in participating in a Beta, or the roll out of commercial support for SakaiPlus - please contact us at plus@sakailms.org or reach out to me personally.\
\
In closing, I have dedicated over half of my professional career to finding ways that we can use the Internet and world-wide web to improve teaching and learning.  I look at the features in the current commercial offerings and think that we can't just stop here.   It is pretty fair to say that for the past two decades, Sakai has been the Research and Development effort for all of the LMS vendors and that the best way to get an innovation into your current LMS vendor's product is to build it in Sakai first.  Sakai innovates, and the commercial vendors adopt it and take the idea to scale.  By adding SakaiPlus to your existing LMS, you are improving teaching on your campus and at the same time the relatively small amount of money you spend, provides financial support so that Sakai continues to innovate and show the way.\
\
Let me know if I can help your school find its way to SakaiPlus.  Like I felt when we did the first Tools Interoperability demo in 2005 in Sheffield, England, right now I am feeling like we are at the very beginning of a dramatic transformation in educational technology.  I would love to have you on board with us.\
\
\
}