{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue233;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c93333;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 https://twitter.com/OnlineCrsLady/status/1314595098131398659\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 every week I get multiple emails about research: how to get help with research, who's doing great research, research research research research. they know research doesn't stand still. but I never get emails about teaching. NEVER. it's as if teaching didn't even exist at all.\
\
https://twitter.com/OnlineCrsLady/status/1315715238839320578\
\
And I have another student now who's sick with COVID and will be missing class this week. luckily, my class is online and it is asynchronous which means totally flexible. but not all classes are like that.\
\
https://twitter.com/OnlineCrsLady/status/1313500772005543937\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 ungrading will not give your students motivation; that's a struggle I'm working on with every student every semester (esp. teaching Gen. Ed.) but ungrading can at least CLARIFY the problem: when getting the grade is not the motivation, you can then try to find other motivation.\
\
https://twitter.com/OnlineCrsLady/status/1312775261235089411\
\
I make sure to design assignments with the goal of feedback in mind: assignments where I want to give feedback (I enjoy reading the students' stories) and where students want to receive feedback (they want to write better stories) result: we all feel motivated! {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://twitter.com/hashtag/UngradingSlowChat?src=hashtag_click"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 \uc0\u8234 #UngradingSlowChat}}\
\
\
https://twitter.com/OnlineCrsLady/status/1313667039396081664\
\
hat's what is so sad: I'm guessing a lot of students have concluded, based on all kinds of evidence, that they really can't trust their professors. so, I can't just take trust for granted. I have to earn their trust, spending my time to undo damage done by pass classes. argh....\
\
Chuck\
\
https://twitter.com/drchuck/status/1306976276150759424\
\
Did my first F2F lecture of the semester. It went well. The blue masks are essential if you want to project your voice. I am glad\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://twitter.com/UMich"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 \uc0\u8234 @UMich}}\
provides them at the lecterns.\
\
https://twitter.com/drchuck/status/1302643454992953344\
\
There are a lot of funders that are interested in a just educational future - but I doubt they would like my ideas of freedom and openness and teacher empowerment. Usually they like things like surveillance to feed artificial intelligence to build the perfect learning Borg\
\
https://twitter.com/drchuck/status/1303330645708505089\
\
I always figure the first question an instructor should answer is "Why are we here?" - *Especially* in a PHP class.\
\
https://twitter.com/drchuck/status/1308246207840616449\
\
I wrote a blog post about Higher Education taking back its birthright through open source {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://t.co/a1Pqc2HmiT?amp=1"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 \uc0\u8234 https://dr-chuck.com/csev-blog/2020}}\cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 ...\cf2 \ulnone \strokec2 \
\
\
}