{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Oblique;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 TSUGI Notes\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 \
I am Dr. Chuck - the creator of Python for Everybody the world's most successful programming course 
\f2\i and
\f1\i0  the creator of Tsugi.  Why are those two things connected? Because Tsugi is the core of my own teaching and educational technology research and the backbone of all of my online teaching.\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 That's cool, what is Tsugi?\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 \
Tsugi is software library written in PHP that allows a wide range of educational software and content to be seamlessly plugged into Learning Management Systems like Sakai, Canvas, Coursera, Blackboard, Moodle, and Desire2Learn.\
\
Tsugi supports all the major IMS integrations standards including LTI Advantage, Deep Linking, Common Cartridge and others.  Tsugi also supports Google Classroom.\
\
The Tsugi library has been used by open source projects like Xerte and Curriki, and commercial projects like SchoolCity.\
\
Because Tsugi is a rich implementation and written in PHP (making it easy to install and host), Tsugi played an essential role in the early interoperability testing between the various LMS vendors as they built their initial LTI Advantage implementations.  Four of the five major LMS providers shipped certified LTI Advantage support at the same time as the standard was released - in 2019 in part because of the work done by Tsugi.\
\
Many LTI Tool vendors have used Tsugi to help understand the LTI Advantage specification by comparing their code to the working implementation in Tsugi.\
\
Tsugi continues to be at the core of evolving IMS standards as a free, open, and easy to understand reference implementation.  Tsugi can quickly be extended to test out new prototype ideas for specifications and then help insure interoperability between LMSs with a new specification.\
\
The www.tsugicloud.org and Dayton Tsugi installations show how Tsugi can be used to provide an application store for education.  The tsugicloud.org app store has over 20 applications, mostly developed by the University of Dayton or me.\
\
Python for Everybody (www.py4e.com) supports the largest programming course in the world.  Using Tsugi and LTI it is deployed on Coursera, edX, and Futurelearn and in use by over 300 schools around the world to support teaching Python.  Each school gets their own key and uses LTI and Common Cartridge to make use of the materials in the PY4E learning object repository.\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 Tsugi This Year \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 \
As the pandemic moved so many schools online I thought there would be an increased demand for innovative assessment tools   So I quickly wrote tools like Document Annotator using CKEditor and StickyGrader (PDF + Stickies).   I thought folks wanted innovative tools for assessments during the pandemic - but really they mostly wanted to use the same stuff they always had used and complain about it :)  There was just not enough energy among my colleagues to try something new.\
\
Another major tool development was a threaded discussion tool.  This tool is important because it is the last core function of an LMS that was missing for Tsugi.  With the addition of a discussion tool, Tsugi can be used as a very simple stand alone LMS.  What is missing is now a simple way to author courses.\
\
I invested in documentation and software to make self-hosting of Tsugi easier.  I gave instructions and scripts to host a simple school on DigitalOcean and showed how to deploy a more scalable solution using Amazon Web Services.\
\
Also work has started on experimental support for PostgreSQL.\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 Project Status\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 \
Tsugi is six years old - and still in Apereo incubation.  But that is OK - things are very stable and the project is nicely on cruise control.\
\
The second most significant contributor is David Bauer of University of Dayton.   David is all set up as an owner of all the necessary repositories to avoid a bus (or race car) factor of 1.\
\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 Going Forward\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 \
The primary directions for the next 12 months are to\
\
Invest in the authoring experience so any teacher can build a Tsugi hosted course.\
\
Add the ability to import a Common Cartridge  to populate a Tsugi course \
\
Improve the Tsugi threaded discussion tool\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 Summary\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 \
Tsugi is in a good place.   We have a solid and adopted product that is working well and evolving slowly and under control.\
\
\
\
\
\
}