{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf290
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9000\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 I was in humanities\
\
Until I took your class, I never knew home much I loved to code.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural
\cf0 Dr. Chuck,\
\
I just wanted to say a quick thanks for doing an awesome job teaching Python. I just found these jobs ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://transparencyjobs.com/jobs/120/"}}{\fldrslt http://transparencyjobs.com/jobs/120/}}) at Sunlight Labs. I applied for the Content Manager job and told them that I am taking a beginning Python class and I think working with them would be a great opportunity to apply my new skills in a practical setting. We'll see what happens, but if I get an offer, I am confident your class will be a big push in my favor.\
\
Thanks,\
Emilie\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
I don't think that it should be a condition of learning something about technology that you are continuously being recruited for a career.  I don't think that it is fair.\
\
Computer Engineer Barbie\
\
A Giggle in the back of class\
\
I come to you from the future\'85\
\
Informatics as a field is very accepting and appreciative of many forms of talent and approaches.\
\
Pink Spray Paint\
\
Data for gender in SI502 - including performance on the exam.\
\
http://www.nytimes.com/2010/03/22/science/22women.html\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural
\cf0 In a separate survey of 1,200 female and minority chemists and chemical engineers by Campos Inc., for the Bayer Corporation, two-thirds cited the persistent stereotype that STEM fields are not for girls or minorities as a leading contributor to their underrepresentation.\
\
Data for gender in Informatics\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
Nash Equilibrium\
\
This is a small, safe, and simple adjustment with possible profound impacts - economic, quality of life, gender balance, \'85.  I can't predict the outcome but I can dream a bit...\
\
I am like the future.  Women are in a programming course that they are forced by curriculum to take and their teacher is like me.\
\
SI502 - Don't shy away from hard topics - but don't teach hard topics as if they were hard.  No recruiting.\
\
Many computer science reformists think that we need to require CS in High Schools and earlier as a tool for recruiting for careers in the field.  Is this true in Reading, Writing, Math, Earth Science?\
\
http://www.nsf.gov/funding/pgm_summ.jsp?pims_id=13510\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural
\cf0 Broadening Participation in Computing  (BPC)\
The Broadening Participation in Computing (BPC) program aims to significantly increase the number of U.S. citizens and permanent residents receiving post secondary degrees in the computing disciplines, with an emphasis on students from communities with longstanding underrepresentation in computing.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
http://www.nsf.gov/discoveries/disc_summ.jsp?cntn_id=114494\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural
\cf0 Cuny says that perhaps the biggest barrier, however, is the perception that the field itself just isn't very fun. "Girls have an image of computer scientists as being nerds who spend all day in isolation," Cuny said in a recent interview. "This is a misconception, but it's very difficult to convince a fourth- or fifth-grade girl otherwise."\
Many prominent women working in the field as researchers paint a very different picture of computer science. To them, computer science offers them the chance to solve complex problems that challenge the world and contribute to discoveries and breakthroughs happening in other fields of science.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
Coffee Shop - - Google\
\
Scratch / Turtle\
\
http://www.connectivism.ca/?p=234\
\
http://www.buzzmachine.com/2010/03/08/tedxnyed-this-is-bullshit/\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural
\cf0 My name is Katie Kujala I am currently in your 502 course.\'a0 Ok, so 502 is my only experience with programming ever and I really like it and want to learn more.\'a0 Hence, I would really like to take SI 539 Design of Complex Web Sites and SI 572 Database Application Design.\'a0 Do you think that I would be able to survive them with only my 502 experience?\'a0 I feel that I would not (well I might, but I don't want to drag other group members down due to being a complete n00b).\'a0 \
\
Professor Severance\
I am currently taking SI502 and am shocked to find that I actually like it and want to do more. I see that you are not on the faculty adviser scheduling tool for the Fall but I was wondering if I could meet with you to discuss future courses.\
Melissa Marshall\
\
Hey Python Community,\
\
I just self published this brand new book and I'm making its PDF\
available for (free) download on my web site.\
\
My goal is to explain some very basic fundamentals of computer science\
to kids who are starting to learn about computers at school and/or at\
home. For the tiny hints of programming, I referenced Python. If you\
(or a kid you know) ends up having access to this book, please send\
your feedback (suggestions/corrections) directly to me so I can start\
thinking about the next edition and how I can make it even cooler for\
kids.\
\
Thanks!\
Andre Lessa\
\
You can download the entire book here (no registration required).\
"Computer Science For Kids"\
http://www.LessaWorld.com/kids/\
\
}