{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww21040\viewh17260\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs26 \cf0 I'd Like to Teach the World to Think - Computationally\
\
How many computer scientists do we need?\
\
Technology is the new Liberal Art\
\
How many middle-class jobs exist that do not include technology or data as an essential element?  How will this change in the next 50 years?\
\
What is Computer Science? Modulo, exclusive-OR, Recursion, O(nLogn), Hash Maps O(1).  Computer Science as applied math.\
\
Ralphie, secret decoder ring.  Enigma.  Bletchley Park.  10,000 people.  Bomba.  Colossus.\
\
Computer Science is about "How".  To learn about technology, we must start with Who, What, Why, and then we can proceed to How?\
\
Perfect environment to experiment.   UMich - need percentages from SI502.  Required course for non-programmers.\
\
Book.  Free, Open, printed copy $9.00.  Rewrote to remove all math except four-function calculator math. Midterm exam.   Lots of short programs.   Lots of positive feedback.\
\
Story of me and MSU.\
\
Picture of Dying CPU "Dying"\
\
All programs look at data about real human beings - email.\
\
Pedagogy of the midterm.\
\
Kristen story - "Better than english"\
\
History and quick overview of the Internet as mental break.  - TV Show - lots of video.\
\
Three hours of SQL.  Right mind state - don't over teach.  SQL story.\
\
The goal is to get them hooked\
\
Abby story - SI539.\
\
My research - teaching and learning with Technology, Sync-O-matic, Sakai, Standards, OER..   And the tattoo...\
\
And then MOOCs\
\
Why IHTS?  Gateway drug for technology.  Who, what, and why - 11 weeks.  Added security - that is exciting.  Sending coded messages in the discussion forums.\
\
Addis Abbaba story\
\
Face to face office hours.\
\
Map - Graphic drop off - show 40% details.\
\
Get the numbers for the course (Dataretention.xls)\
\
Teaching Assistants.\
\
I had their attention - they were curious and confident with no where to go.  Rice course - Math example.\
\
My course.   online.dr-chuck.com\
\
Map\
\
Free Book.  Free Course Materials.  Open source auto-grader.\
\
Copyright in the back of the book.  Translate.  Learning new ways to think must be in a native language.  High schools.\
\
\
\
\
}